# Quantifying social sensitivity: which past social network structures shape future individual behaviour?

## Abstract:

Individual interactions within social groups underpin social structure, though it is not always clear which aspects of these structures are meaningful to the individuals embedded within them. We propose a temporal framework that considers explicitly how–and to what extent–past social structures influence future behaviour. We propose that the magnitude of behavioural sensitivity to different dimensions of social structure reflects their potential fitness benefits or costs, an idea we refer to as the social sensitivity hypothesis. We use grooming and aggression data from a population of wild vervet monkeys to test predictions derived from this hypothesis. Specifically, we estimate the influence of one global, two triadic (local), and three dyadic network measures on subsequent grooming behaviour. We also test whether the extent of sensitivity is contextual by estimating how it responds to food availability. We show that individuals were most sensitive to past dyadic interactions, particularly prior grooming given and received. Triadic effects, such as sensitivity to grooming partner’s grooming choices, were strongest in contexts with high food availability. In contrast, the impact of aggression was reversed across high and low food contexts. At the global network level, individuals were influenced by community membership, even after accounting for dyadic and triadic social structures. These findings illustrate how a social sensitivity approach can uncover not just what aspects of social structure matter, but when and in what contexts. We suggest that identifying the dimensions of social structure to which individuals are most sensitive provides an additional path toward understanding how these influence fitness-related outcomes.
